Targets transition mega PR (#2)
USGS-R/ds-pipelines-targets-2-course: responses/15-undoc-file.md

> #### undocumented inputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Undocumented inputs
```
Also capitalize "Side-effect" in the previous subheading

> ---

Reviewer: Above - the first paragraph under side-effect targets needs revision because **targets** can have multi-file outputs. You can also produce an iterable list of objects, which is not quite the same as two object outputs but does come closer (see https://code.usgs.gov/wma/wp/res-temperature-process-models/-/issues/3 for extensive musings on this).

Reviewer: I think you can just delete "You may have noticed that there is no easy way to specify two ouputs from a single function in a pipeline recipe. We can have multiple files as inputs into a function/command, but only one output/target."

And modify "If a function writes a file that is not explicitly connected in the recipe" to "If a function creates a file or output that is not explicitly connected in the recipe"...or maybe you can make that even clearer

is "implicit file target" still the language we want to use? I think that's remake language, and targets doesn't infer that filenames are files (i.e., create implicit targets in the remake sense) - there's no choice but to explicitly define a file as a file.

Author: `multi-file outputs` are in the form of a vector of filenames, correct?

Reviewer: correct

Author: do you think changing `not explicitly connected in the recipe` to `not returned by the command` is clearer? That is what we mean by "connected" in targets, correct?

Reviewer: Yeah, I like that

Additionally, it is tempting to code a filepath within a function which has information that needs to be accessed in order to run. This seems harmless, since functions are tracked by the dependency manager and any changes to those will trigger rebuilds, right? Not quite. If a filepath like `"1_fetch/in/my_metadata.csv"` is specified as an argument to a function but is not also a target in the makefile recipe, any changes to the `"1_fetch/in/my_metadata.csv"` will go unnoticed by the dependency manager, since the string that specifies the file name remains unchanged. The system isn't smart enough to know that it needs to check whether that file has changed. 

To depend on an input file, you need to set up a simple target that returns the filepath and use the target name (`my_metadata_csv` in our example) as input to targets that depend on it.

```
tar_target(my_metadata_csv, "1_fetch/in/my_metadata.csv", format = "file")
```

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a couple of lines showing how you'd use `my_metadata_csv` in a downstream target? Maybe even a "Don't do this: ___ Do this: ___" pair of examples

> As a rule, unless you are purposefully trying to hide changes in a file from the dependency manager, do not put filepaths in the body of a function. :end:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a rule, unless you are purposefully trying to hide changes in a file from the dependency manager (an advanced technique we'll cover later), do not put filepaths in the body of a function. :end:
```

I'm wondering whether we'll actually need this advanced technique. Looking forward to seeing how ds-pipelines-3 pans out (that's where we do it, right?).

Author: Pipelines 3 is where we cover task tables and the targets equivalents of those. I guess I am not really sure what this is referring to. When do we hide changes from a file?

Reviewer: Huh. I'm blanking now, too, except with respect to shared cache (which we don't have for targets). I agree we should just leave this out and go for 
```suggestion
As a general rule, do not put filepaths in the body of a function. :end:
```

Reviewer 2: I've used this (or wanted to use this) when the _big_ files I am creating are going to an external hard drive. And then using an .ind to represent that file hash in the local directory. That kept remake from indexing/searching an external drive (which was slow-ish) and also allowed the pipeline to run when the hard-drive wasn't attached, unless those files were needed. This is nearly identical to a shared cache concept, except that it isn't collaborative.

Reviewer: Good to know. I'd be content to leave that extremely advanced case out of these intro courses, especially if we can find other ways around the issue in the future (e.g., building on Caldera).

Your example raises the question for me of how **targets** handles file hashing - does it take any useful shortcuts such as checking timestamp and file size first, then hash if timestamp or size have changed? (I'm not sure if that would be sufficiently watertight, but I assume Will Landau has thought about it and may have a better solution than remake's. The answer is probably somewhere in [here](https://github.com/ropensci/targets/blob/7a76cf8c94145f2f4b70f0859dba7eb5d918396c/R/class_outdated.R) and is not immediately clear to me.)
